= i18n_column

== Introduction

This extension provides the capabilities of storing and retrieving translations from a single database column. The translations are stored as a JSON object i.e. {"en":"Home","de":"Zuhause"}.

The current and default language are stored within the class <tt>I18nColumn::Language</tt>. On each request the current language must be set via <tt>I18nColumn::Language.current_lang = 'en'</tt>. If not set the default language is taken. <tt>I18nColumn::Language.current_lang</tt> is used as the JSON key to store a translation i.e. "en":"Home".

== Installation

* Recently a gem version will be provided on gemcutter.
* Run <tt>rails generate i18n_column:install</tt>. It will generate a i18n_column initializer file in order to set the default language.

== Example

<b>Migration</b>

 class CreateNodes < ActiveRecord::Migration
   def self.up
     create_table(:nodes) do |t|
       t.text(:name)
     end
   end

   def self.down
     drop_table :nodes
   end
 end

<b>Model</b>

 class Node < ActiveRecord::Base
   i18n_column(:name)
 end

<b>Controller</b>

 class ApplicationController < ActionController::Base
   before_filter(:set_i18n_column_lang)

   private

   def set_i18n_column_lang
     I18nColumn::Language.current_lang = params[:lang]
   end
 end

<b>Console</b>

 I18nColumn::Language.current_lang = 'en'
 node = Node.create!(:name => 'Home') => {"en":"Home"}
 node.name => 'Home'
 I18nColumn::Language.current_lang = 'de'
 node.name = 'Zuhause'
 node.save! => {"en":"Home","de":"Zuhause"}
 node.name => 'Zuhause'

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010 Philipp Ullmann. See LICENSE for details.
